So I just wanted to do a quick video
here on the internal modifier, because
you'll remember back when we discussed
access modifiers, I mentioned that Kotlin
has the internal modifier and when
something is declared as internal it
means that it's visible within the same
module. So now we have two modules to
play with, so I thought it would be a
good time to revisit the internal access
modifier, but before we do that
I just wanted to quickly touch on
private again, because we have more files
to play with now and private means
visible within the same file. So let's go
back to company communications and let's
declare top-level as private. So now, that
it's private it should be visible within
the same file, so let's give that a shot.
We'll come up here when we'll say top
level. I'm private and you can see that
we don't get any errors, but if we switch
to another file now, We'll see that we
have errors here, we can no longer see it.
The import statement gives us an error
and there's an error when we use it and
the same thing with another module,
it can't see it either, so once we declare
something private, it can only be seen
within the same file. Ok, so that was just
a quick revisit of private. Now, let's
move on to internal, let's make the get
copyright line function within the
singleton, company communications object
let's make that internal and see what happens.
So we'll just use internal in front here
and now everything within the same
module should be able to use this, but
stuff in another module should not be
able to use this. So let's test that out.
So we can obviously use it from here,
we have a call to it here and that's not
a problem, let's go to another file we're
using it from another file, which is
within the same module and that can use
it no problem, but now let's go to
another module file and let's try to use
it. So we'll say company communications
and that's okay because company
communications is still public dot and
you'll see that now the only
two items being suggested to us are the
property and they get tag line function.
So if we go back and look at the object,
we'll see that this is still public, the
get tag line is still public but because
get copyright line has now been declared
as internal, this file which is then
another module can't see it. So we can no
longer use that within another module.
So that's what the internal modifier does.
So I'll take this out so we don't have
any errors. Now one thing I wanted to
mention is that if for some reason we
decided to make this private, so that it
can only be seen within the same file,
obviously this is meaningless at that
point because the entire class can only
be seen within this one file.
So declaring something as internal doesn't
make any sense because by default,
nothing outside the module is going to
be able to access it because nothing
outside the file is going to be able to
access it, so this is one combination of
access modifiers it doesn't make a lot
of sense, if you have something private
there is no point in declaring members
as internal. So I'll just move with the
private and we'll remove internal and
then if we go back to our another module
and we do the same thing we did before,
we'll see that now we're getting the get
copyright line function suggested to us
again, because it's now public, so that's
the internal modifier, now you've
actually seen it in action, I'll just
delete this and that's it for import,
like I said they're not really that much
different from Java except that you can
import top-level items like functions
and extension functions and that's
really the only difference. However,
I just wanted to mention one last thing
before we move on and this is just
related to IntelliJ if you've been
working on a file for a while you might
end up with imports you're not using or
duplicate imports etc and IntelliJ can
clean up your imports for you, you can
see here and now I have an import I'm
not using because I had company
communications here and then I deleted
it, so I have an import that's not being
used so of course I could come along and just
delete it myself, but if there was a
whole bunch of imports up here, I can
have IntelliJ clean it up for me and
there's two ways to do that,
I can press ctrl alt o on Windows and
guess that would be command alt o on a
Mac, but I'm not sure but the way you can
check is you can also go up to code and
there's an item here for optimized
imports and here it will tell you what
the keyboard shortcut is. So I'm going to
use the menu item and when I do, you'll
see that it cleaned up the imports and
got rid of the one we're not using, so I
just wanted to show you how to do that
because when you're working on a file,
it can get messy after a while and that's a
quick way to have the IDE clean up the
imports rather than you having to
manually come in and delete stuff and
that's it for imports in the internal
access modifier.
I'll see you in the next video.